$Id: README,v 1.1 2000/03/14 00:28:47 ahn Exp $

--

README file for Netrek RES-RSA

Module:		RES-RSA
Version:	2.9.2
Release Date:	Mon Mar 13 18:29:16 EST 2000
CVS Tag:	res-rsa_2_9_2_release
URL:		http://sourceforge.net/project/?group_id=968
URL:		ftp://ftp.netrek.org/pub/netrek/rsa/

Note:		This release has no new functionality over 2.9.1.
Note:		New changes deal only with documentation.  There
Note:		is no reason to upgrade to 2.9.2 if you are already
Note:		using 2.9.1.

--


1. What is Netrek RES-RSA?

RES-RSA is an implementation of the RSA public key cipher.  It is used
for authentication purposes to validate Netrek clients that connect to
RSA-enabled servers.  Without RES-RSA, it would be easy for anyone to
download the client source code and add "borgish" features (such as
auto-phasers, leading-torps and visible cloakers) to cheat at the
game.  With RES-RSA, this kind of cheating becomes very difficult, but
not impossible.


2. Who wrote RES-RSA?

Ray Jones is the original author of most of the code.  Sam Shen is the
original author of mkkey.  Other contributors include Nick Trown, Alec
Habig, Kurt Siegl, Dave Ahn, Bob Tanner and probably another dozen or
so people.


3. Where can I download RES-RSA?

RES-RSA development is located under the Netrek project at SourceForge
(http://sourceforge.net).  Please visit the site for information on
RES-RSA and the Netrek project.

The source code is available at the following sites:
	ftp://ftp.netrek.org/pub/netrek/rsa/
	http://sourceforge.net/project/?group_id=968


4. Do I need to download RES-RSA?

Most people don't need to.  If you're interested in playing Netrek,
then you can download a precompiled RSA-enabled, "blessed" client
binary from http://www.netrek.org/software.html and not worry about
RES-RSA.  If you're interested in creating a "blessed" client, then
you will need both the client source code and the RES-RSA source code.
If you're interested in running an RSA-enabled server, you will also
need RES-RSA.


5. How do I install and/or use RES-RSA?

Detailed instructions are available in the INSTALL file.


6. I'm having problems with RES-RSA.  Where can I get help?

If you discover a bug, please submit a bug report through SourceForge.
If you fix a bug, please submit a patch through SourceForge.  If you
have compile or usage problems, please submit a support request
through SourceForge or contact the development team at:
	vanilla-list@us.netrek.org.

You can locate Netrek at SourceForge at:
	http://sourceforge.net/project/?group_id=968


7. Isn't RSA patented?

The RSA algorithm is patented in the United States.  Ray Jones
received special permission from RSA Labs to use the RSA algorithm for
Netrek and to distribute the source code and compiled binaries for
non-commercial purposes.  Dave Ahn verified this permission again with
RSA Labs in 1999.  Users of the RES-RSA package must agree to the
RSAREF licensing terms (see the LICENSE.US file).

Outside of the United States, the legality of the use of RES-RSA
depends upon local, state and national laws governing those users.  But
in general, most users in the western hemisphere are in the clear.


8. What about U.S. export regulations?

Up until January 14, 2000, it was nearly impossible to export any kind
of cryptographic software.  The distribution of RES-RSA was strictly
controlled according to guidelines set forth by the Bureau of Export
Administration (BXA).  In fact, prior to March 13, 2000, there was a
European version of RES-RSA that was identical in functionality to the
U.S. RES-RSA.  Fortunately, the regulations changed.  RES-RSA now
qualifies as "open source" software that falls under the license
exception.  Under this exception, royalty-free cryptographic software
source code may be exported without a BXA export license so long as
certain conditions are met.  Dave Ahn has confirmed RES-RSA's license
exception with BXA.

Dave Ahn
